OK so now we're at the section where we are going to integrate firebase into our application for mostly
authentication and a bit of storage.
Now in order to understand what firebase is as well as why we want to use a service like firebase I
want to show you a little diagram before we write any firebase code at all
weapon development is generally divided into two sections.
There is front end and then there's back backend front end development consists of any javascript H2
AML or CSF code that comprises the application that our users see and interact with.
So all of the code that we have written up to this point is all front end development.
This includes any of the components we've built.
Any of the pages we've built any of the styling we've written everything that we've done is all front
end development.
You can see front end development as essentially anything that the user does see or is able to see back
in on the other hand is mostly code regarding things that the user will not see and what is back in
development well back in development generally consists of three things at least for our intents and
purposes with our application there is anything related to a server anything related to a database and
anything related to authentication.
Now the database is generally where we store any data that is important for our application.
So what do I mean by this.
Well right now in our application we have this list of shop data that we use in our shop component our
shop component creates these collection previews based off of this shop data that has category items
and in the category items there are the specific items that we want to display right.
These are all the items that our user is able to purchase or see.
We only have around 40 items so it's not that big of a deal for us to store on our front end.
But if this list was thousands of items in hundreds of categories we can see how this would be really
heavy in terms of performance for our browser.
So what we would want to do is store this on a database so that our application loads quickly and at
the same time it's not like at any point we want to display all 1000 of our hats for example when our
user navigate store has page nor do they need any of the information related to shoes related to jackets
or whatever category.
If they only want to see the hats well all of that data those thousands of items would be stored in
a database and then the server would store the code that determines the most efficient way to request
any of that data from the database.
So we on our front end for example a user navigates to a Hearts page they would say in our code we would
write something like I want from our server the 20 latest hats that are available while our server would
figure out the best way to query the database for the 20 latest hats in all those thousands of items
that are available it would have to figure out what our hats right and what are the latest 20 and then
what's the most efficient way to fetch that data that code is all back in coding.
We on the front end don't generally do any of that stuff authentication is the means in which our server
determines that the user at that is trying to access the server or the database is who they say they
are.
So if our user logs into our application and they want to request say all of the card items that they
stored in their last session three weeks ago we would generally store that information on our database
so that when they come back and they log in again they would send that request to the server with their
user profile information.
Our server would then authenticate that that user is who they say they are usually with the email password
and then they would be able to properly query the database for that stuff because we don't want users
that aren't the right user asking for information that we don't want them to be able to have.
Right.
So one user could not access another user sensitive information that we would be storing on our database
firebase is generally a solution or a platform that has all of this handled for us so we don't actually
have to write any back in code at all.
If we did not want to
this course is ninety nine percent front end related that last remaining 1 percent is mostly going to
cover some of the concepts of our backend so that we know what we're doing with firebase as well as
there is a point where we have to spin up a small server to handle our payments but I will show you
all of that stuff later.
So definitely don't worry about that but we need to understand this separation so we understand where
firebase ends and our application begins and vice versa firebase in itself is a great solution for us
front end developers because it's created by Google so it handles a lot of the stuff that a back end
developer would normally do for us including efficiently querying our database efficiently storing our
stuff it gives us a very easy way to do o authentication which normally to do from scratch is extremely
difficult and it also does a lot more than what I'm covering.
There's so much great things about firebase that really helps us front end developers to get access
to back end features without having to do back in development so let's dive right in.